hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonustoday.com I'm your host Dylan
Grabowski this episode of the smart
economy podcast is part of a handful
we'll be releasing about Bridging the
knowledge gap between traditional
internet and finance and the web3
industry in this episode I chat with
Chris Sowers the founder of
writingcoaching.com Chris has been a
writing coach for about five years and
has worked with several writing
professionals including screenwriters
for popular television shows in 2020 he
began to coach and edit articles for the
Neo news today team which is where he's
gained much of his exposure to the
blockchain industry in this conversation
Chris and I talk about how traditional
companies can engage employees to keep
them around how his side hustle has
evolved and grown to coaching more than
a dozen writers what what it was like
first discovering cryptocurrency and his
first impressions how people working in
this industry for the betterment of
society positively changed his
perceptions of the technology how
blockchain can be used to reduce
friction and remote working and
traditional industry and much more just
a reminder nothing said on this podcast
is a solicitation to buy or sell any
tokens that nothing should be taken as
Financial advice and that the Hoster
guests May hold tokens discussed in any
given episode with that said I really
enjoyed chatting with Chris and I hope
you enjoy the conversation too
hey guys welcome to the smart economy
podcast today I'm joined by Chris Sowers
the founder of writingcoaching.com how
are you doing today Chris I'm doing
great Dylan thanks how are you I'm
awesome I think we should probably just
get this little bit out of the way you
have been the writing and editing coach
for me and the rest of the Neo news
today team for a couple of years now so
there's a bit of a prior relationship
there yes there is when did you start
working with us it's been a while I
think yeah I was thinking about that the
other day I think it has been right
around two years awesome and just to
kind of paint the picture were you in
the blockchain space at all before you
started writing or editing or writing
work no not at all no you guys were my
uh welcome into this wonderful world
awesome so I think to kind of paint
context maybe we can just talk very
briefly high level about what your
primary day job is and then also talk
about how the writing gig is your side
hustle yeah I live in the the midwestern
part of the United States and I am an
engineering manager at a pretty large
industrial manufacturing company uh
headquartered here in the Midwest I've
worked there for about 20 years and yeah
that's that's really it there's there's
not a whole lot uh exciting there I I am
an engineer a mechanical engineer by
education how I got into to coaching
kind of stems from that I was in a
position a few years ago at my day job
where I was doing a lot of leadership
coaching and I really loved it another
opportunity came around and I took it
but I discovered then how much I missed
and loved that coaching aspect and so I
decided to try to do something in my
nights and weekends along those lines
and making a pretty long story as short
as I can that's how I wound up doing
writing coaching I sort of also in
parallel discovered that people were
really looking hiring me to to work with
them on their writing because I was also
doing some publishing and things like
that just because it's what I like to do
so a few years later here we are yeah I
remember a very distinctly when we kind
of Hit the breaking point at nnt where
Dean was just kind of like I know what
I'm looking for but I don't know how to
describe it to you and I was very
frustrated because I was like I'm
writing the best I can and we're just
not aligning so it was really awesome to
to I didn't know that it's it's obvious
in hindsight that there's a writing
coach service but I didn't know that
there was like a person like you to fill
that role so it was kind of interesting
from my own perspective to kind of like
start working with you because it saved
my sanity and probably the rest of the
team as well before we kind of like go
into the creative side something that I
think is really interesting is that you
have been with your company now for
almost 21 years and in this day and age
that's a complete Rarity my father's
generation and my dad's dad's generation
they would find a job and they would
stick there for their whole career and
to a day especially with Millennials and
I don't even know what gen Z is like
anymore you know the average career
track for a millennial at least this is
what they told us when I was in college
was you'll spend five years working on
like an industry and then you'll jump
ship to a new one and spend another five
years there so the modern day and age
especially as technology becomes more
and more prevalent in our lives and we
don't have to work in the same
geographic location anymore it's just so
rare to run into somebody like you and
this job you've had was your first job
out of grad school and you've been with
them the entire time it is it is where
I've been for that long yeah it's hard
for me to really do to be honest so
maybe just doing a little bit of
introspection what is it that has kept
you in with this one company for 21
years
and why do you think that this isn't the
norm anymore yeah those are really good
questions the easier one is probably why
have I stuck around for so long and
quite Frank you know I don't want to
share too much about the company or or
too much inside baseball with with what
they're about but but where I work you
really can kind of do what you described
without leaving the company it's a
really flexible environment the
company's leadership at least the
leaders that I've had along the way have
always been very invested in employee
development and if you're not happy with
what you're doing you can change and
they've done a really good job of
realizing that if they don't allow us
that kind of flexibility as employees
we're going to find it elsewhere so
that's probably you know every few years
when I kind of get an itch to do
something a little different I've been
able to do it and stay within the
company
things are definitely different now a
good portion of even our engineering
Workforce is now on a hybrid or remote
kind of working arrangement and so we're
facing struggles along those lines of
now you really can even if you live in
the middle of the midwestern us you can
work for a company on the coast whereas
maybe a few years ago you couldn't do
that as much as you can now that's
having obviously you know you could you
could spend days reading everything
that's been published on this topic but
it really is I'm seeing how it affects
us as a company your bigger question
around why why have things changed and
you know my parents and Grandparents
were much the same they worked for the
same company for a long time I think I
don't know at least in my situation with
my own father I saw him work for a
grocery store he worked for the grocery
store in the town that I grew up in for
25 years and then he lost his job and he
lost his job through no fault of his own
own but just through kind of
organizational Dynamics and you know a
fancy term re-engineering that used to
be popular and seeing him go through
that right he had dedicated 25 years to
this company and suddenly he was nothing
to them that had a big impact on me at a
very formative point in my life and so
if even younger Generations than me I'm
almost 50 years old if even younger
Generations than me are seeing that
happen you start to question is it worth
it is it worth it really to give all of
myself to this company that can turn
around and do that and and completely
disrupt my life it's a good point and I
think a lot of people just aren't
willing to to make that sacrifice
anymore well it sounds like you kind of
got lucky with your company because they
prioritized engaging the employees and
keeping you guys around so it's kind of
cool that you got to jump ship I myself
get the itch to do something new all the
time after college I was a fundraiser
and then I wanted to go into planning
and then I got sick of urban planning
and now I'm writing about fake Internet
money for a living and I also just
didn't recognize that there were any
companies or Enterprises that kind of
fostered this sort of in internal growth
and I think that maybe there's like a
nugget of Truth or a nugget of gold for
companies as we move forward especially
in this rapidly remote working world
that we live in so thanks for kind of
sharing a little bit about that now I
can't imagine that mechanical
engineering is necessarily your passion
and when you go back and look at your
academic record you got a bachelor of of
Fine Arts was it or liberal arts yeah
well a Bachelor of Arts yeah Bachelor of
Arts so maybe in college when you were
before you got smacked down by the
realities of the world and having to
have a family and make a decent income
maybe you had these visions of grandeur
of being a writer or something so where
did your passion for writing kind of
start and was it in college was it
before College could you talk a little
bit about that yeah I think it was it
was well before College
you know as as early as I was able to
write I would work on stories or it's
just something that I've always liked to
do I've always I've always loved to read
I've always yeah enjoyed writing and I
was I was generally pretty good at it I
remember getting feedback in grade
school you know from teachers and and
you know a couple instances were
something I I wrote was
you know read to the class you know
silly stuff like that but my point is I
was pretty good at it and maybe I would
have tried to make a career out of it
from the beginning but I just I didn't
necessarily get the encouragement to do
so and maybe didn't even know what that
could look like and so I've kind of had
to just find my own way with it over the
years and here I am you know literally
decades later doing it for fun of course
as a like you described it the side
hustle I just enjoy doing it yeah it's
hard to Envision building a career when
you look at like Steinbeck or even
Hunter S Thompson and these guys are
just like drunk all the time writing
away in some little hovel in like a
Caribbean Island somewhere you know it
sounds great and it's very romantic yeah
but like that's not going to feed your
kids that's right so then your interest
in writing did that stem because you
could write or was it like a book or
something like that that kind of sparked
your interest because I I very much
remember what book it was for me that
kind of like kicked things off it was
Angela's Ashes oh wow yeah and after
reading that I was like my god well it's
phenomenal isn't it yeah I have clients
that'll read a book like that and it'll
almost have the opposite effect where it
intimidates them so much it's like this
is so beautiful this is so amazing I can
never do that and then there's others
like you who do get inspired by
wonderful writing and and want to pursue
it that way so it's interesting being a
coach and trying to figure out like you
know know when you and I worked together
maybe I take a different approach than
when I work with some other clients who
might be intimidated by that whereas
you're inspired by but that's not your
question is that your question is around
if there was a single book for me I
really don't think there was you know as
a kid I loved reading Stephen King books
if I had a favorite author at the time
that was probably it I never would have
thought that I could do that I had a
really active imagination as well so
maybe I would try to write you know my
12 year old version of a horror story or
something like that so if I had to
pinpoint something it would probably be
Stephen King I guess that's a pretty big
author for a kid I remember trying to
crack through Jurassic Park when I was
12 by Michael Crichton and I just could
not even though I loved the movies well
you know back then Dylan we didn't have
the internet so and we had three
channels on television so there were
there weren't the options that you have
today so I guess maybe you could just
describe a little bit about what it's
like being a professional in the writing
field now and maybe kind of compare
contrast to your day job if they're at
all even relatable you know the
relatable thing I'm a an engineering
director at my company and I don't do
engineering anymore it's so the
relatable thing is that everything I
that I do at my day job and in this is
related to people and how do you how do
you navigate organizational Dynamics
Team Dynamics individual Dynamics in
order to accomplish a goal and I I do a
lot of coaching at my job still not
formally like I used to or formally like
I do in the writing so that's probably
the relatable bit that crosses over
between the two as far as coaching
writers I just I love helping people get
to the next level and specifically what
and I've been doing this for five years
what I've discovered that I'm pretty
good at and really what I love to do is
help good or very good writers get to
the next level so if you have no idea
what you're doing I'm gonna struggle
with you but it's like you and and Edge
you guys are already really really good
and I remember telling Dean this when
you first reached out to me you're
already really really really good I
think I can help you get from that 90 or
95 to 100 that's what I really love to
do and I love to see like the
connections like when a client makes
that connection when they kind of
discover these things it's just it gives
me chills even to think about the
moments that that has happened yeah I go
back and look at some of the articles I
wrote in 2018 19 2020 and I'm like who
the hell wrote this after years of
working with you that next level for me
has just kind of been catch things as
I'm writing them or while I'm editing my
first draft I can kind of Envision you
know what would what would Chris say
maybe maybe I can beat him to the punch
and so it's kind of ingrained these new
like checklists that I have internally
which is really gratifying because when
I went to grad school for planning my
goal wasn't to come out and be like the
world's best planner I literally wanted
to become a better writer like that was
what my big goal was was how can I start
writing papers to describe like my
conceptualizations of how cities should
be designed or how Transportation
networks should be built in the US to
help decrease congestion and improve
quality of life for people who don't
even care to take a bus or take the
train so it's been really awesome to
kind of like go from that 90 to 99 of
course I don't feel like I'm a great
writer so I feel like maybe that's a bit
of humility that maybe is necessary to
continue progressing so I think think
you are and it's good that you don't
I'll just say that because then you're
always you're always wanting to improve
so and that's kind of what I've
discovered and that's another parallel I
think to my engineering work too is the
best Engineers don't think they're the
best what makes them so great is that
they're starting to realize everything
that they don't know and the more they
know the more they realize there's more
they don't know and that is what I think
is true expertise cool so can you share
just
um I understand that your clients maybe
it's not like a like a lawyer client
relationship where there's privilege of
of not sharing you know Insider
information but can you just share some
broad overviews of the types of clients
you have because as we mentioned earlier
in this podcast we're one of your
clients but like you hadn't heard of
blockchain until you started coaching us
so I can only imagine you have some
really interesting clients working in
maybe weird and unique places in this
world yeah I don't I don't know if
there's too many weird or unique I'll
tell you most of the clients that I work
with are I wouldn't say there's anything
weird or unique about them they just
they're at a point in their life where
they want to get their thoughts onto the
screen or onto paper and for whatever
reason they've they've discovered that
they could use some support in doing
that so it's a lot of people that want
to start a blog just to kind of Express
their thoughts right and put their
thoughts out there into the world that's
what I work with a lot I also I've been
surprised maybe if there's been one
surprise it's the number of professional
writers who reach out for coaching
because I thought when I first started
doing this I thought and like I said I
didn't set out to be a writing coach
people started hiring me as a coach to
work with them on their writing one day
I woke up and realized I have a dozen
writing clients I guess that means I'm a
writing coach so that's what I started
focusing on but when they did first
start hiring me it was the bloggers they
want to start a blog or they just need
some support along those lines and
what's been been surprising since I
flipped everything over and I'm solely
focusing on coaching writers now it is
the number of professional writers that
will reach out for this kind of support
and it's really around accountability
they know how to write they don't need
me helping them improve their writing
I've worked with writers for example
without sharing too much I've worked
with writers who have well one writer
who has worked on The Stranger Things
series on Netflix cool and when he
disclosed that to me I'd been working
with him already for a while and he
shared that with me and he needed
accountability so he knew what he needed
to work on he's a great writer obviously
look what he's done with his career he
needed somebody to remind him to do his
writing every day right and to be there
as kind of that because when you're a
writer it's sort of what you miss you
you don't have when you're you know
you're a freelance writer or whatever
you don't have a boss looking over your
shoulder like in many jobs telling you
what to do and checking your work every
day and you know some people need that
and credit to them even the
professionals who who realize that and
say yeah I've got this deadline I've got
to have this whatever turned in in three
months but I know left to my own devices
I'll wait until day you know two months
29 days before I think about it so I
need a coach to hold me accountable so
yeah I kind of got a little off track
there but everything from I want to
start a blog to I sold this movie script
and now I gotta actually write it like I
sold this idea and now I gotta write it
you know what I mean and everything in
between so it's it's really cool and
pretty humbling and a little bit of
imposter syndrome we'll set it now and
then and then I I remind myself now
there's a reason they hired you it's
okay you're allowed to coach them I
totally understand what it's like having
imposter syndrome I'm constantly feeling
like I'm the dumbest person at the table
which is where I want to be in the
blockchain space because because there's
just so many more intelligent developers
designers Architects things of this
nature and it's really funny that you
brought that specific example up I'm
re-watching Seinfeld right now and in
season three George and Jerry they get
hired to put a pilot script together for
NBC and for like three or four episodes
It's just them continuously delaying the
actual work like they'll sit down to
work and then they'll pick up the phone
to call Elaine or turn on the TV so they
never actually get the work done and
then of course that's part of the show
kind of dealing with you know their own
trouble that they put themselves into
but that's also something that I kind of
wanted to pull a thread on myself having
I wouldn't call myself a creative
because I'm not like writing stories or
putting together scripts but like
writing and putting together podcast
episodes it's it's more on the creative
side rather than like the have a boss
over your shoulder side yeah so I myself
feel there are times when I'm just not
inspired I just don't have that juice
flowing through me and as a quote
unquote professional I need to force my
way through that what's it like for you
because there's a little bit just like
me it's half and half you're not having
to put these Concepts onto paper and
build this whole world that you need to
tell a story about but you do need to
step into that creative realm to edit
somebody's work so as a writing coach do
you find that sometimes you have writers
block yourself and you just can't edit
or you feel like you can't edit and so
what's that like being a professional
writing coach and pushing through that
and maybe what are some tips or tricks
you've picked up over the years yeah I
love this topic and just about every
writing client that I've worked with
over the years faces this to some degree
this very thing that you're bringing up
and actually I would if if anybody
listening there's a fantastic book on
this subject called The War of art by
Stephen pressfield it's just fantastic
and it's all about this great topic and
and pressfield calls it the resistance
when you sit down to do and I think it
would apply to anything creative when
you sit down to do it there's this
creative resistance there and it's
exactly what you're talking about and
the whole book is really about how to
how to work through the resistance and
you know there's there's little tips and
tricks that you can try really it comes
down to what you said which is sometimes
you just gotta tell yourself you got to
do the work you know at my day job
I can't wake up in the morning and say
you know I'm just not feeling it today I
mean I could I guess but I don't right
you show up and you put in the work
regardless of your level of motivation
you know I I'm just not feeling inspired
to engineer today or I'm just I'm just
not feeling motivated to do this but you
do it anyway and and pressfield really
recommends taking that same approach to
your creative work is don't wait for the
Muse to visit you because the Muse shows
up when they want to not when you need
to do the work when the Muse does visit
you that's fantastic you know we might
call that flow or something like that
but it's not always gonna it gonna
happen and by the way a way to get the
Muse to show up is to do the work and if
you just sit down and start doing the
work lots of times inspiration comes
from doing the work not the other way
around and so that's what I work a lot
with clients on is just you don't have
to to write the whole novel today write
a sentence just write a paragraph go
write a paragraph right now in 30
minutes and check back in with me and
tell me it's done and lots of times I'll
hear from them three hours later saying
hey I did the paragraph and it just it
turned into seven pages because that's
the kind of thing that happened so so
that would be a tip there is to just do
it don't wait for the Muse just do it
I've also worked a lot with clients so
I'm kind of paying attention to their
creative energy levels I can't write in
the afternoon I just cannot I can edit
in the afternoon or in the evening but I
can't write then so even even if I got
to put together kind of a more involved
email for work I can't do that in the
afternoon so pay attention to your
creative energy levels and Reserve time
when your creative energy is at a peak I
think you'll find that it's it's pretty
consistent day to day and so Reserve
that time for your creative work versus
when you're in a in a creative trough or
however you want to how I'll read phrase
it yeah I noticed my writing creativity
is at its highest early morning kind of
right after I wake up right before lunch
when I first went full time with Neo
news today I was actually waking up
setting my alarm to wake up at 6 30 so I
could get my writing done and be done by
10 and this was in October November so
there was no daylight in the morning for
a few hours so I felt like I'd be
working when the whole world was asleep
and it was like my kind of super power I
guess if you will yeah you kind of
alluded to it in your response but do
you have to tackle those creative
blockers as a editor as well or because
the words are in front of you and you
have this objective task it's a little
bit different it depends on the editing
really so there's without getting into
too much detail there's there's content
editing and there's line editing content
editing is the person really needs some
help with structure they've got the
ideas they don't quite know in what
order to put them or how to connect them
that's what I would call content editing
that definitely requires a higher level
of creative energy than what's called
line editing which is basically it's
there I'm fixing grammar and spelling
stuff so yeah it does apply it it's the
and it depends on the kind of editing
that you're doing and that the line
editing I can do when you know in the
afternoon or the evening when my
Creative Energy isn't real high but that
kind of structural editing like if you
come to me and say hey I got these great
ideas I just don't know how to put this
together I'd be most effective working
on that in the early morning just like
you something that I like about this
conversation is even though the smart
economy podcast was born out of Neo news
today podcasts which focused directly on
blockchain we're moving into a new
economic model with the further
integration of technology and remote
work is just going to be something that
becomes more and more part of our life
so something I really appreciate about
this conversation even though it's it so
far hasn't been super blockchain focused
is that we're talking about ways in
which people can take their careers into
their own hands and kind of join this
new economic Paradigm Shift where you
know when I went to call College I was
told you're going to get a job and
you're going to work at that job for x
amount of years but it was already
happening in the mid 2000s with YouTube
becoming so popular and Twitter and just
everybody using the internet so a lot of
this kind of ties into how people can
really take the reins over what they
want to do with their lives their
quality of life how they want to be
employed so something that I think is
really interesting from your perspective
and you kind of have alluded to this
earlier how you just stumbled upon
someone and then I have 12 clients what
does this look like for somebody and and
maybe it doesn't necessarily have to be
creative writing it could be all sorts
of other jobs that you find online but
ultimately like the freelancer the
person who's starting their own business
they need to come up with clients what
does that process look like for finding
clients and I'd also like to hear how
you got in contact with the Neo news
today team yeah yeah sure for me there
was this a hole in my life when I left
that job where I was purely training and
coaching and switched to another more
directly engineering managing kind of
role it was just this hole that I was
looking to to fill and you know I
started kind of just looking around on
the on the internet for I I knew I
wanted I kind of had an idea that I
wanted to coach I sort of wanted to
coach leaders that's what I've been
doing at my at my job and I like doing
it and I I was just kind of Googling and
I discovered this platform it's called
coach.me and you could get certified to
be an online coach I don't know what the
heck I'll give that a shot I started out
trying to coach I had packages on there
for leadership coaching and I decides uh
2020 should have noted but no leaders
are going to coach.me to look for uh
Executive coaching which is basically
what I was trying to do that's not what
that platform's built for that platform
is built for more accountability
coaching but anyway I I got registered
on there and eventually discovered how
you needed to show up on that platform
in order for clients to hire you and it
just it just sort of took off from there
so there was really no magic to it I
mean I just kind of did some research
found that platform and decided to give
it a shot and it's it's turned into what
it's turned into today and actually
that's how Dean found me was through
that platform I had switched everything
over that was after I had kind of
realized oh wow look at this I'm a
writing coach 12 of my 14 clients are
writers so I had switched everything
over on that platform and and Dean had
just gotten on the platform and found me
and I remember having a call with him
being completely intimidated because I
knew nothing about blockchain it was
very mysterious to me very intimidating
and I didn't think I could do what Dean
needed me to do but the more we talked
talked you know and I read some articles
and kind of got into what you guys are
doing a little bit and said yeah let's
let's see how it works not really sure
where it would lead to here we are a
couple years later I'm on your podcast
for crying out loud yeah I remember Dean
saying I found this guy who's great but
he knows nothing about blockchain and he
was right and at first it was
um kind of like well maybe we should go
with the with the other folks who who do
know but ultimately I think that that
brought a whole new level that rounded
us out and made us better because we get
to explain these Concepts now in a way
that on Reddit it's called eli5 explain
like I'm five and to have like a coach
that says I don't get this you need to
make it simpler for me to understand I
think that that is what can help onboard
you know the next 10x users in the
blockchain space yeah before we kind of
shift into the blockchain part of this
conversation something that I can relate
to with your story is I remember are
working for the D.O.T in California
thinking man I want to get out of this
planning field like I just am not
feeling gratified by it anymore and I
didn't know what to do so I just started
writing a Blog and um I used that blog
to Parlay in my first interview with
Dean he's like can you give me writing
samples and boom I had a Blog I was
posting twice a month for like eight
months able to show something that
showed I cared about writing I want to
do this and here's some examples Vincent
from Ghost Market he got his start with
Neo news today before he started doing
all his really cool things because he
used to blog as well
so it's really interesting to just kind
of go out there and just start throwing
things against the wall and maybe
eventually they'll stick maybe somehow
this the starting point will lead to the
next Point yeah I love that which is a
piece of advice that you know I want to
share with others because just doing
just starting to do and this kind of
ties into the writing you were just
talking about just doing can really
parlay into something really interesting
that you'll never know how to get there
unless you just start yeah I love that
advice and and you don't know you know
there's all of this magic happening
behind the curtain that you you have no
idea who's reading what you're putting
out there or it doesn't have to be
writing whatever you're doing just
because you do it because you love to do
it you have no idea what kind of
connections are being made behind that
curtain that could lead to something
someday and there's some stuff in here
about manifestation and all of that but
you know we can get as uh as out there
as we want to but I really believe that
you know know just by putting stuff out
there there's this I just refer to it as
the magic behind the curtain that can
start to happen and lead to things yeah
uh one of our guests on the smart
economy podcast told me recently they
they thanked me for inviting them on
because some of their co-workers across
the world got to listen to the Pod and
they learned things about our guests
that they had no idea about and it
really opened their eyes and just kind
of highlighted the expertise and
knowledge that they bring to the table
even though they might not be talking
about that today so hopefully future
future clients of yours are listening to
this at some point later down the road
in the space time continuum absolutely
so we touched upon this in the little uh
conversation we were just having you had
zero idea about blockchain before you
came in to be our writing coach
so most of your exposure to this
ecosystem in industry has been through
our lens and our lane has been focusing
on the Neo blockchain so you know most
people come into this learning about
Bitcoin or learning about ethereum and
you've learned from our perspective so
what do you find intriguing about the
work that we do and how do you think
that that relates to kind of just like
the broader space how do you think your
education about crypto in general
through our lens has impacted what you
know could you just talk a little bit
about that sure the first thing for me
that really I don't know if it surprised
me but just like I said it was very this
world was very mysterious to me I did
know a little about blockchain but just
enough to be scared of it and to be
intimidated by it in cryptocurrency to
me that term itself sounds terrifying
why would I win anything to do with that
but when I got to know you guys
and I got to see some of the amazing
stuff that's happening in this world
there are really really good people in
this world who want to make a positive
difference who there's no other way to
put it than who want to do good in the
world and that was a bit of an Awakening
to me are there scammers out there in
the world of course there are but at its
core the people that are involved in at
least in my experience through you guys
in blockchain and cryptocurrency are
genuinely good people who want to make a
positive difference and make the world a
better place and that sounds hokey but I
really think it's true that's been a
real Awakening for me I think that one
of the cool things about getting
exposure to this world through you guys
is seeing a different lens than what
maybe ordinary or average people are
exposed to this world through Bitcoin
like you said and for me it's been
through Neo which has been a real
different you know I've gotten to learn
about blockchain through the Neo lens
and understand like different consensus
mechanisms and different approaches like
that and the the dual token model versus
other models and it's been really cool
to kind of get exposed to the different
solution ideas through you guys because
you know I want to know more about
ethereum I want to know more about
Bitcoin because of where I'm starting
with you guys that I started through
Bitcoin I don't know that I would have
ever really wanted to broaden from there
it's it's hard to say but I really do
like seeing things through your guys
lens that way do you remember the first
time you heard about Bitcoin or ethereum
like how far back was it for me
personally I remember I was in grad
school and Bitcoin had just dropped from
like 700 to 300 and I was like that's a
scam
and I didn't come back until 2017 and
that's when I got bit by the bug so do
you remember like the first time you
heard about it in passing even if like
you were just like oh internet money
cool I won't think about this for five
years you know I'm gonna guess at a year
I'm gonna guess like 2015 and kind of
ironically I think the first time I
really heard of Bitcoin was through my
day job a mass email was sent out from
our corporate lawyers saying it is
against all of our policy days to mine
Bitcoin using your work work equipment
which of course then everybody's like we
can use our work equipment to mine
Bitcoin honestly that was probably the
first I really heard and I'm like what
does that even mean I don't know what it
means to mine I mean I know what it
means dumb mine in the Earth found when
it needs to mine Bitcoin I'm gonna guess
that was around 2015. interesting and
then it was just like after that ignore
it pretty much I mean I might have done
a little bit of research just to try to
understand what is this so what does
this even mean but yeah I didn't didn't
pay a whole lot more attention to it
than that yeah it's really funny my
uncle was telling me when he was in when
he was in elementary and middle school
uh the Dare program which if you're not
in North America dare was a program to
help keep kids from getting involved in
drugs and he told me when he was when he
first went through the Dare program they
just gave him a piece of paper and they
said don't try these things at home they
will get you high and so of course he
was immediate really interested so
that's here's my checklist yeah yeah so
that's kind of the perspective that just
kind of like rang when your company said
uh don't mind Bitcoin you're gonna make
Bitcoin off of this using our our
company computers and so to me it just
seems like maybe a few people kind of
orange pilled themselves after reading
that like oh I'm not allowed to do this
don't tell me what to do watch me I bet
I can get away with it yeah so in the
years since you're in a quote unquote
traditional engineering field and you
guys are nowhere near the cryptocurrency
space are there any conversations around
the water cooler about like what Bitcoin
is what are your co-workers talk about
if they talk about the space at all yeah
there actually are it's interesting I
not everybody certainly not even a
majority but for example there's there's
someone on my team who Minds Bitcoin in
his garage and he and I'll kind of talk
about that world and things like that
the nft craze recently he and I would
talk about that and so it is it is kind
of it's a good way to phrase it water
cooler-ish kind of discussion uh that
does happen but it's not everybody there
are still plenty of people that have no
idea what blockchain or cryptocurrency
even is before I went full time with
neo-news today I was writing on the side
and I was that crazy guy at the water
cooler at your office talking about
putting money into Bitcoin uh consensus
mechanisms and the majority of the
people just kind of like they had the
look that just says like they're patting
you on the head and like oh okay I hope
you do okay with that and and have you
noticed these conversations kind of in
increasing over the years or are people
feeling more emboldened to talk about it
or are they just becoming more
interested in general I think just like
just like the rest of of society really
you know there's TV commercials now for
cryptocurrency right there or that world
at least so yeah just like the rest of
society it's becoming more talked about
it's not a huge topic of conversation
anymore than you know the baseball game
last night but it's on that level and um
you mentioned your dad your kids aren't
children they're growing into their own
developing their own ideas thought
processes Concepts you know uh they're
coming to a vage as you could say are
your kids talking about cryptocurrency
and blockchain are there friends talking
about it do the types of games they play
land Credence to these types of
conversations yeah I I think so our
oldest son especially he's a senior in
high school so he's 17 years old he's
really interested so he knows that I'm
connected with you guys and he's very
interested in kind of what Neo is what
Bitcoin is how this works unfortunately
not interested enough that he's going to
go get a computer science degree which
is what I really would like him to do
but but he is it's it's intriguing to
him I would say and he he wants to know
more about it he thinks it's cool but I
have cryptocurrency and some nfts and he
wants to see what I have and he's he's
definitely interested and I could see I
could see him starting to do a little
bit of investing in this world cool and
what about your younger kids is that I
would imagine that if they came to this
element it would somehow be through
gaming like Roblox or something like
that yeah exactly yeah they're very into
and that's probably where they're I
don't know that I can put words to this
probably where their exposure ends and I
don't know if this is true or not but it
seems to me like they might be using it
without even realizing they are right
you know what I mean like I don't know
that they would say there are blockchain
elements in these games that they they
play I don't know that they would even
know that it's just part of what they do
without realizing it yeah that's kind of
what I'm looking forward to about the
space as as it continues to get older
and more ingrained is that you and I we
had to learn what's blockchain how does
this how do cryptocurrencies differ from
traditional currencies from Securities
from traditional assets and like even me
I grew up with the internet I grew up
having a computer in my house since day
one one of my first memories is is a
computer playing on a computer when I
was like two or three so even a small
difference between us this the small
difference in ages I've grown up with
the internet my entire life maybe you
had to learn how to integrate it into
your life exactly so that's going to be
really interesting and like I'm excited
to see gen Z come of age like your son
uh who's about to go to college I'm
excited to see what they do in a few
years but I'm even more excited to see
what today's middle middle schoolers and
Elementary School schoolers do in 10
years when they're not out there
proselytizing different Bitcoin and
blockchain networks they're just using
them they're just using it yeah part of
their Tech stack yep so something that I
wanted to to pull on is we're obviously
in the middle time between then which
was no one knowing anything about
Bitcoin and all of our
conceptualizations are that it's used
for illicit purposes on Silk Road and
criminals use it to fast forward 20
years when it's just like another native
part of the technology stack that we're
using just like the internet today we're
in that middle ground right now so I
guess I'll use like a personal
experience you're a grown man with a
family and a career and graduates degree
and sometimes some of the things you're
writing you're editing for us are just
about asinine things like nudes tokens
so do you ever like while you're editing
some of this stuff in the crypto space
are you ever like what the hell am I
doing here and secondly to kind of like
build on top of that do you think that
that's an opportunity or a constraint
like memes can tell stories really
quickly and I think that that's an
opportunity even though a lot of people
would say memes are just dumb pictures
on the internet so it's kind of like a
big broad question but what's your
perspective on that yeah it's a great
question yes it is big and Broad yeah
you know some of the some of the stuff
you just can't help but laugh about
right like you brought up the perfect
example the the nudes tokens and you
just can't of course it's silly but it
also sticks with people right they're
not going to forget that one of the
things that excites me about continuing
to work with you guys in this in this
space in general is the opportunity
that's out there to make connections
between the blockchain cryptocurrency
world and general acceptance and I think
the thing that can help with that you
you know it's the reason I was
intimidated was I didn't have a human
face for this I didn't know about it
because it was this mysterious you know
even I knew enough to know that whoever
first came up with Bitcoin was this
mysterious guy that nobody could really
identify right and to me I think what's
really going to help Mass adoption is
the humans that are involved in being
able to see like I did oh my word there
are really good people in this business
trying to do really good things for the
betterment of society and and again that
maybe I'm hopelessly naive and that
sounds kind of hokey but really I think
that I think putting that human face on
blockchain or cryptocurrency is really
the thing that we can do to to help the
general public get more comfortable so
now you've been exposed to crypto and
blockchain for two years you've gone
from not knowing anything into having
maybe your own opinions insights just
based off of what you've learned through
editing our work maybe through your own
research so I'm curious to hear from
your perspective two things how do you
think blockchain and cryptocurrency can
be integrated into your day job to
improve processes and how do you think
it can be incorporated into your side
hustle to improve processes cool man
good question there's in the in the
writing world in the freelancing world
there's I see opportunity there with you
know deliver you hire somebody to do a
creative job
how do you pay them how do you set up a
contract so that they're paid for
Milestone delivery and things like that
of course you can do that without
blockchain but but blockchain just
removes a friction right can remove
friction from those kinds of things in
in the real world of my day job I think
that the most striking example of where
blockchain can help is with supply chain
and the last couple of years have had
supply chain constraints all over the
world at times have brought us to our
knees have brought other companies to
their knees you know the the whole
automotive industry here in the US it
has not recovered car lots are 10 full
even today so I think there's just
tremendous opportunity there to again
not I don't think reinvent anything but
just remove friction interesting so with
two years under your belt editing for us
you know you might not feel like it but
in an industry that's only 14 years old
you're someone out of an expert now
which ties back into this imposter
feeling you were talking about earlier
that I continue to feel day in and day
out even after covering this space
full-time four and a half years from
your Viewpoint what do you think is the
next Trend or the next shift in the
blockchain space and if you just had to
take a guess what do you think we'll be
talking about over the next few years
yeah I think and a lot of this I've
probably learned directly from you Dylan
I think what's next is that we won't
talk about this chain or that chain or
that chain that certain chains will have
certain strengths and they can all exist
and integrate together to deliver what
the world needs them to deliver
I think from from my uh expert to your
opinion and what I've seen I think
that's probably what's next so it's not
ethereum or Neo maybe down the road
we're not even the names of the
different chains maybe aren't even that
important it's just all integrated and
working together to like I said deliver
what we needed to deliver I think that's
what's coming who knows yeah I mean
you're speaking my language I think
interoperability is only going to become
more and more important as time goes on
and there's not going to be one chain to
rule them all ultimately I think that
they're going to be certain chains that
fulfill certain needs like you're going
to have X amount of supply chain chains
and maybe even like a freelance writing
chain that that folks want to use to
like pay out freelance writers and we
just don't know what that's going to
look like but I think all signs are
pointing towards being able to
communicate cross chain I think it'll be
people will be using it without even
realizing they're using it and that's
probably true to an extent today I
remember a Thanksgiving dinner years ago
and we were at my grandparents house and
my grandfather we were talking about the
internet this would have been I don't
know 15 20 years ago maybe so the the
internet was pretty young I remember my
grandfather saying I don't I don't need
the Internet I've lived so long without
the internet I don't need it you know
grumpy old man kind of thing and my
uncle pipes up and says Dad you have
seven devices in this house that are
currently using the internet and you
don't even realize it and I think that's
probably where we're gonna get to right
and like I said to some degree we're
already there probably but even even
more so where it just it's like you said
with my younger kids it's probably just
part of their lives and they won't even
really realize it you kind of already
talked about this but in wrapping up I
want to just explicitly ask you how do
you think web3 blockchain crypto can
Empower creatives and freelance writers
and maybe even expand our pool of
applicants from Beyond just like Western
Nations and empower the rest of the
world oh yeah the the connectivity is
just staggering the ability to do
exactly what you just said and it plays
in with everything else that's going on
in the workforce right now around remote
work and all of those things they're all
fitting together to drive that even more
I think blockchain plays into a
cryptocurrency plays into it right we
don't need dollars or Euros or whatever
maybe and it just all fits together to
be driving things more and more that way
more integration more seamless Global
the integration is the only word I can
come up with but but that's only going
to going to increase and continue to
drive things that way well Chris thank
you so much for your time today it was
awesome to pick your brain you listen to
every one of these episodes and provide
feedback so it was awesome to have you
on the other side of the mic if somebody
was listening to this and they became
inspired to write or inspired to store
putting their thoughts down on the paper
and they want to work with you what's
the best way that somebody could reach
out and get in contact with you the best
way is just my name Chris b-h-r-i-s at
writingdancecoaching.com and you can
just email me directly or I do have a
website writing dashcoaching.com you can
go there click the little contact button
and email me that way too awesome thanks
for sharing the mic with me today it was
awesome to chat with you yeah this one's
a lot of fun Dylan thank you cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation I thought it was really
interesting to learn more about Chris's
Awakening to the positive benefits that
blockchain and crypto can offer which
was because he'd recognized the efforts
of good people working in this space it
was also really funny to hear about the
first time he learned about Bitcoin
which was through a company memo stating
employees couldn't mine it with their
work computers and it was really cool to
hear about Chris's anecdotal perspective
about blockchain becoming a ubiquitous
part of our lives and relating that to
conversations about earlier days of the
internet he had with his grandpa on that
note I want to thank you so much for
taking the time to listen to the smart
economy podcast if you liked what you
heard and want to support the show
please keep Neo news today in mind when
voting for your Neo Council
representative as part of Neo's
governance process we appreciate you and
look forward to catching you next time